README.md, before:

# spring cloud playground project

- inspired by `https://spring.io/guides/gs/routing-and-filtering/`
- and developed reading `spring micro service in action`

## Status
- `gradle` project has 3 modules
  -  `common` a library with common part necessary to every `microservice` of the project.
  - `gateway` use `Zul` to add `correlationId	` to every request.
    - provide routing rules, so other `microservice` are accessed through it, and the correlation ID is then added.
    - default port: `8080`
    
    - `book` sample `microservice` with `book/available` and `book/checked-out` rest endpoint.
    - default port: `8090`
    
direct access:    				http://localhost:8090/available
access through gateway: 		http://localhost:8080/books/available
- correlation id is set as the header: `tmx-correlation-id` of the request forwarded from `gateway` to `book`: `RequestFilter`
- it is also added in the header of the response by the `gateway`: `ResponseFilter`


  
  
## Todo

### Find how to move spring-depedencie plugin declaration at top gradle project

Commit message:

- added spring-cloud-sleuth to `book` and `gateway` -- still need to check if I need to manually add the tx id - started integration with zipKin

README.md, after:

# spring cloud playground project

- inspired by `https://spring.io/guides/gs/routing-and-filtering/`
- and developed reading `spring micro service in action`

## Status
- `gradle` project has 4 modules
  -  `common` a library with common part necessary to every `microservice` of the project.
  - `gateway` use `Zul` to add `correlationId	` to every request.
    - provide routing rules, so other `microservice` are accessed through it, and the correlation ID is then added.
    - default port: `8080`
    
    - `book` sample `microservice` with `book/available` and `book/checked-out` rest endpoint.
    - default port: `8090`
    
    - zipkinServer
    
direct access:    				http://localhost:8090/available
access through gateway: 		http://localhost:8080/books/available
- correlation id is set as the header: `tmx-correlation-id` of the request forwarded from `gateway` to `book`: `RequestFilter`
- it is also added in the header of the response by the `gateway`: `ResponseFilter`

- !!! Playing with ZipKin is not great so far :-( cannot see trace from `book` 
  
  
## Todo

### Find how to move spring-depedencie plugin declaration at top gradle project
